<!--
Copyright (c) Meta Platforms, Inc. and affiliates.

This source code is licensed under the MIT license found in the
LICENSE file in the root directory of this source tree.
-->
# DjangoBench

DjangoBench uses Django + uwsgi + CassandraDB to run a synthetic website aiming
to represent IG Django production workload. This workload will push CPU utilization
to around 95% and measure the max transaction rate it can achieve.

## System Requirements

Django workload can have two configurations. The most recommended one requires two machines:
one for running Cassandra DB server (DB server machine), the other for running the django server
and client (benchmarking machine).
Another configuration is the standalone config which is to run the django server, DB Server and
client on the same machine.

We recommend placing the DB server machine and the benchmarking machine within the same network
and maintain the ping latency between them to be in the range of 0.1 and 0.15ms.

## Install django workload

On both of the machines:

```
./benchpress_cli.py install django_workload_default
```

## Run django workload

### Start Cassandra DB

On the Cassandra DB server machine:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r db
```
This should run indefinitely. You will see a lot of `java` processes running, and you can check
if Cassandra has started up successfully by running `lsof -i -P -n | grep 9042`. Cassandra will also
output log at `benchmarks/django_workload/cassandra.log`.

If you would like Cassandra DB to bind a custom address, please use the following command:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r db -i '{"bind_ip": "<ip_addr>"}'
```

This is useful when the output of `hostname -i` does not return a reachable IP address or is not the
address you would like to use. Please see more details in [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting).

### Start benchmarking

On the django benchmarking machine (where the django server and client are run):

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>"}'
```
Note that `<db-server-ip>` has to be an IP address, hostname will not work.

If running on ARM platform, please use the job `django_workload_arm`:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_arm -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>"}'
```

### Using standalone configuration

To run the server, client and database on the same benchmarking machine:
```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r standalone
```
If running on ARM platform, please use the job `django_workload_arm`:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_arm -r standalone
```

### Selecting Python Interpreter

DjangoBench supports two Python interpreters:
- **CPython** (default): The standard Python interpreter
- **Cinder**: Meta's performance-oriented Python runtime

To specify which interpreter to use, add the `interpreter` parameter to your command:

```
# Run with CPython (default)
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r standalone

# Run with Cinder
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r standalone -i '{"interpreter": "cinder"}'
```

When running with a separate database server:

```
# Run with CPython (default)
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>"}'

# Run with Cinder
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>", "interpreter": "cinder"}'
```

The interpreter type will be reported in the benchmark results, allowing for performance comparison
between CPython and Cinder.

### Run DjangoBench Mini

DjangoBench Mini is a shrunken version of DjangoBench that
aims to reduce execution time to less than 30 seconds
and can potentially be used for emulations.
It reuses the dataset generated by the full DjangoBench and has a shorter runtime because
 it runs only one iteration with the number of repetitions set to 100.

To run DjangoBench Mini, please follow these steps:

1. Make sure that you get the latest version of DCPerf and check out the latest commit in the `v2-beta` branch.
If you've installed DjangoBench with an older version of DCPerf,
we recommend you clean and re-install DjangoBench.

2. Run the regular version of DjangoBench on a real machine for the first time to build the dataset

- If you are using an ARM machine, run the `django_workload_arm` job:

```
./benchpress run django_workload_arm -r standalone
```

- On x86 machines, run the `django_workload_default` job:

```
./benchpress run django_workload_default -r standalone
```

This will generates the necessary dataset and stores it in /data/cassandra/data.
Create a backup of this folder to avoid data loss.

3. Copy over `/data/cassandra/data` to the servers or the emulator that you would like to benchmark, then run DjangoBench mini:

- For ARM:

```
./benchpress run django_workload_arm_mini -r standalone
```

- For x86:

```
./benchpress run django_workload_mini -r standalone
```

These mini jobs will reuse the dataset generated in the previous step.

## Reporting

Once the benchmark finishes on the django benchmarking machine, benchpress will
report the results in JSON format like the following. `Transaction rate_trans/sec`
is the metric that measures performance.:

```
{
  "benchmark_args": [],
  "benchmark_desc": "Default run for django-workload",
  "benchmark_hooks": [],
  "benchmark_name": "django_workload_default",
  "machines": [
    {
      "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
      "cpu_model": "Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8321HC CPU @ 1.40GHz",
      "hostname": "<hostname>",
      "kernel_version": "5.6.13-0_fbk19_6064_gabfd136bb69a",
      "mem_total_kib": "65386044 KiB",
      "num_logical_cpus": "52",
      "os_distro": "centos",
      "os_release_name": "CentOS Stream 8"
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "L1d cache": "32K",
    "L1i cache": "32K",
    "L2 cache": "1024K",
    "L3 cache": "36608K"
  },
  "metrics": {
    "Availability_%": 100.0,
    "Concurrency": 61.90999999999999,
    "Data transferred_MB": 474.424,
    "Elapsed time_secs": 299.22400000000005,
    "Failed transactions": 0.0,
    "Interpreter": "cpython",
    "Longest transaction": 0.244,
    "P50_secs": 0.07,
    "P90_secs": 0.11000000000000001,
    "P95_secs": 0.12,
    "P99_secs": 0.14,
    "Response time_secs": 0.07,
    "Shortest transaction": 0.03,
    "Successful transactions": 251285.2,
    "Throughput_MB/sec": 1.5879999999999999,
    "Transaction rate_trans/sec": 839.7880000000001,
    "Transactions_hits": 251285.0,
    "URL_hit_percentages_/bundle_tray": 15.013,
    "URL_hit_percentages_/feed_timeline": 29.988,
    "URL_hit_percentages_/inbox": 20.019,
    "URL_hit_percentages_/seen": 4.991,
    "URL_hit_percentages_/timeline": 29.988,
    "score": 0.875782881
  },
  "run_id": "5b0b9b15",
  "timestamp": 1651108577
}
```

Note the `Interpreter` field in the metrics section, which indicates which Python interpreter
was used for the benchmark.

## Troubleshooting

### Cassandra could not start

If Cassandra could not start and quits soon after launching, please look at
`benchmarks/django_workload/cassandra.log` to see if there's any error message.

One common error you might see is "Unable to find java executable.
Check JAVA_HOME and PATH environment variables". This is because Cassandra
could not find JVM in your system. If this happens, please manually export
the environment variable `JAVA_HOME` setting it to the path to your JVM.


You may also encounter the error message "The stack size specified is too small, Specify at least 456k".
To resolve this issue, add the following configuration to the end of
`benchmarks/django_workload/apache-cassandra/conf/cassandra-env.sh`:
```shell
JVM_OPTS="$JVM_OPTS -Xss512k"
```
This adjustment will increase the stack size to a sufficient value.

### Cassandra IP binding

By default, Django benchmark decides which IP address to have Cassandra bind by
looking at `hostname -i`. If `hostname -i` multiple IP addresses, Django benchmark
will choose the first one. This may not work sometimes and cause the following
issues:

1. Cassandra exits prematurely and the log mentions "Unable to bind to address"

2. Cassandra runs normally but the django benchmarking machine cannot connect to
Cassandra DB.

In this case, please start Cassandra DB by running the following command:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r db -i '{"bind_ip": "<host-ip>"}'
```
Where `<host-ip>` is the IP address that Cassandra is supposed to bind and the
benchmarking machine can connect to.

### Siege hanging

Django benchmark should finish in around 35 minutes. If you see it not finishing
for long time and the CPU utilization is very low, it's probably because the
load tester Siege run into deadlock and hang. This a known issue being discussed
in [Siege's repo](https://github.com/JoeDog/siege/issues/4) and it may happen more
frequently on newer platforms.

As a workaround, we provide an option to run the benchmark with fixed number of
requests instead of fixed amount of time. The benchmarking command will be the
following:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>", "reps": <REPS>, "iterations": <ITER>}'
```

`<REPS>` is the number of repetitions or requests per CPU core and `<ITER>` is
the number of iterations to run (default is 7).

If you do not wish to change the number of iterations, then run the following:

```
./benchpress_cli.py run django_workload_default -r clientserver -i '{"db_addr": "<db-server-ip>", "reps": <REPS>}'
```

#### How to choose the number of reps?

We recommend the REPS to be somewhere between 3000 and 8000. The runtime will
depend on the computation power of your CPU.
If you have already run the default time-based Django benchmark once, you can
make REPS to be `wc -l /tmp/siege_out_1` divided by the number of your logical
CPU cores. That way the runtime of each iteration will be close to 5 minutes.

### Cinder-specific issues

If you encounter issues when running with the Cinder interpreter:

1. **Cinder build failures**: If Cinder fails to build during installation, make
sure you have all the necessary build dependencies installed. You may need to
install additional development packages.

2. **Virtual environment issues**: If there are problems with the Cinder virtual
environment, you can manually check if it was created correctly by looking for
the `venv_cinder` directory in the django-workload installation.

3. **Performance differences**: Cinder may show different performance
characteristics compared to CPython. This is expected and can be used to
evaluate the performance benefits of Cinder for Django workloads.
